Resources from the Mentoring SMART Women Study
The Mentoring SMART Women study a five-year randomized control trial that sought to improve mental health and retention outcomes for apprentice tradeswomen who were affiliated with SMART (Sheet metal, air, rail and transportation) International Union. 
Conducted in partnership with SMART International leadership and funded by the Center for Construction Research and Training (CPWR), the study team at University of Washington (UW) developed and administered a mentorship training program to journey-level mentors, who participated in a remote, 3-month training process. They were matched with apprentice-level tradeswomen for a year-long period, providing resources, skills, and social support. Over the course of the study, two rounds of yearlong mentorship were conducted. 

The resources available here are designed for tradeswomen, union leaders, and academic audiences looking for tangible resources to support the development of future mentorship efforts for tradeswomen. 
The best practices guide provides an overview how to set up a mentorship program, conduct training for mentors, address common challenges, and sustain programs in the long-term. This resource may be particularly helpful for union leaders and tradeswomen audiences looking to learn more about the steps to creating and maintaining a mentorship program in union settings. Here, the UW study team provides reflections from each step of the process, making recommendations for improvement for future work. 

The mentor handbook provides a high-level overview of all content covered in the mentor training. This resource may be particularly helpful for tradeswomen or other workers interested in being mentors. It also provides worksheets and resources for mentors and mentees to use in regular meetings. 
